Add language guide for C# (#34)
codecrafters-io/docs: docs/challenges/language-support/csharp.mdx

---
title: "C#"
description: "Learn how to solve CodeCrafters challenges in C#"
---

# Local development

To run the code for your challenge locally, you'll need `dotnet` installed. Our test runners use Dotnet 8.0 (as of April 2024).

The script for your challenge (like `./your_sqlite3.sh`) will automatically compile your code using `dotnet` before executing it. It'll
look something like this:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

> exec dotnet run --project . --configuration Release "$@"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exec dotnet run --project . --configuration Release -- "$@"
```

(We're changing this here: https://linear.app/codecrafters/issue/CC-1170/c-spawn-scripts-are-not-properly-passing-arguments-to-main)

```

# File structure

- The files for your solution are placed in the `src/` directory.
- `src/Program.cs` contains the `main` function, which is what the test runner executes.
- The `.csproj` file defines project settings, target frameworks and dependencies.

# Adding more files

You can add more files and directories to `src/`. The test runner will include them when compiling your code.

For example, if you added a file at `src/Foo.cs`, you could use it like so:

<CodeGroup>
```csharp src/Foo.cs
public class Foo {
    public static void foo() {
        System.out.println("Hello world!");
    }
}
```

```csharp src/Program.cs
public class Main {
    public static void Main(String[] args) {
        Foo.foo();  // calls the method foo() from Foo class in Foo.cs
    }
}
```

</CodeGroup>

By default, all classes in `src/` belong to the same namespace. This namespace is called the _project namespace_. E.g. If the project name is `MyProject`, all classes are defined under the `MyProject` namespace. This is why you can call `foo()` without importing anything.

> If you want to define a class under a _different_ namespace, you'll need to enclose it within braces like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to define a class under a _different_ namespace, you'll need to use the [`namespace`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/namespace) keyword like this:
```

(More important to highlight the `namespace` keyword than the braces)

Author: ![CleanShot 2024-04-23 at 18 35 40@2x](https://github.com/codecrafters-io/docs/assets/71697384/f4e54c6f-e26c-4d39-ac05-f5f0a6f303df)
@rohitpaulk Hyperlinking a code block makes the styling look wonky. Better to remove the code blocks around namespace?

```csharp
namespace AnotherNamespace {
    public class Foo {
        public static void foo(string[] args) {
            // write code here
        }
    }
}
```

Let's say you want to define the `Foo` class in `Foo.cs` under the `AnotherNamespace` namespace.

<CodeGroup>

```csharp src/Foo.cs
namespace AnotherNamespace {
    public class Foo {
        public static void foo() {
            System.out.println("Hello world!");
        }
    }
}
```

```csharp src/Program.cs
using AnotherNamespace

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

>       Foo.foo();  // Uses the foo function from Foo class defined under AnotherNamespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Foo.foo();  // Uses the foo function from Foo class defined under AnotherNamespace
```

Inconsistent indentation

    }
}
```

</CodeGroup>

> <Note>

Reviewer: This can be removed - seems like a more nuanced detail that we don't need to cover.
